So let's move on talking
more about functions,
context and another addition,
variable environments.
Here's another phrase that's used when
talking about JavaScript under the hood.
It's a lot more complicated
sounding than it really is.
Variable environments?
Well, big word alert.
Variable environment is just talking
about where the variables live that
you've created and
how they relate to each other in memory.
So when you think about the variable
environment just think about
where is the variable?
Let's move on from there.
Let's look at a piece of sample code.
Again I have two functions,
a function B, and a function A.
Inside function B,
I declare a variable called myVar.
And don't set it equal to a value.
In function A I set a variable called
myVar also and set that equal to two.
And then outside the functions
I also declare a variable called myVar
again, and set that equal to one.
Then A is called and
inside A, B is called.
So what's going to happen?
What is the value of myVar
at any point in time?
To answer that we need to think
again about execution context.
What's happening as these
functions are invoked?
So, at first what happens?
The global execution
context is created and so
that bottom myVar is
put into memory space.
In the case of the global
execution context,
it's variable environment is the global
object, or a window in a browser.
So then the code is executed and
that memory space will get a value of
one when it hits that myVar = 1 line.
And then it hits the invocation of A.
And what happens?
A new execution context is created for A.
And when it's created,
that myVar will be put into that
execution context variable environment.
See every execution context has
its own variable environment.
And its value will then be
two during the execution
phase when that line myVar = 2 is run.
Then, it invokes B, and a new execution
context with its own variable environment.
Its own memory space for
its variables is created.
And since it's not set equal to a value,
myVar will be
put into memory with a value of,
as you've learned before, undefined.
This has to do with
something called scope.
Just means where are we
able to see the variable?
Each variable that we are looking
at is defined within its own
execution context,
because it's within a function.
And every time you call a function
you get your own execution context.
So even though the myVar
Is declared three times.
They're distinct, they're unique,
and they don't touch each other.
All right, let's prove that.
I've put my code into a JavaScript file,
and
I've added some console.logs so
we can see the values.
So we set myVar equal to one, log it.
Then call function A,
which will create a new execution context
on the execution stack on top
of the global execution context.
So this will be the running code.
It will create myVar in its own
variable environment, log it.
And then we start another execution
context by invoking a function and it will
put its own variable called myVar into its
variable environment and we'll log that.
So, what should you expect to see?
Well, we're going to expect that we'd
see this console.log happen first.
It runs A, so we'd see this one second.
And then it runs B, so
we'd see this one third.
So I should see one, two, and what will
be the value if I haven't set a value?
What value does the execution context
creation phase set all variables to?
That's right the special value undefined.
So I should see one, two, undefined.
And so I'm going to go ahead and run this.
And open up the developer tools,
go to the console and look.
One, two, undefined.
Exactly as we expected.
So, each of these myVars is sitting
in its own execution context.
Calling this function
didn't affect this myVar.
Watch, I'll console.log
myVar after calling A.
Should that have an impact?
This answer is no,
because once we finish A,
we're now the currently running code
is the global execution context.
Where myVar is one.
So I shouldn't see another one
when I console that log here.
Let's say that again.
This code is running inside
the global execution context.
These variables are attached
to the variable environment
of the global execution context.
So when I log this I see a one.
This calls, and this runs,
and that's its own
execution context with its own
variable environment, the same with B.
So when I leave B, A finishes.
And when A finishes I'm back to the global
execution context because the B and
A execution contexts have been
popped off the stack, they're gone.
The currently running context
is the global execution context.
And what was myVar in that context?
One, so I'll save this,
run it, and what should I see?
That's right.
One, two undefined, one.
See that?
One, because that's inside
the global execution context.
Two, because that's inside
A's execution context.
Undefined, because that's
inside B's execution context.
And then one again,
because we're back to running inside
the global execution context.
Got that?
Does it make sense?
Try this code out for yourself.
Mess around with it a bit.
See if you understand it.
Remember this is important.
And as we move on if you've got this
concept down, it will reveal another
concept that's interesting,
fundamental and often causes confusion.
But you are going to understand it.
Let's move on.